Hi guys.
In the next couple of labs we're going to be covering Amazon CloudFront.
This is part of the networking content delivery category but it does make some sense to have it in this
part of the course as it's very often used with Amazon S3 as well as with EC2.
So what is CloudFront.
Well it's a content delivery network and its main purpose is to get your data closer to your users.
So let's say you have a global company and your user base is distributed.
These users could be anywhere around the world and your users need to access data and let's say you're
distributing some images or some web pages and you want to make sure that the user experience is really
good.
So if your region where you're actually storing this data is in let's say the US and your users are
in other parts of the world right out in Asia for instance there's gonna be a long distance and a lot
of latency trying to get that content to the users.
So you've got a couple of options.
One is that you could actually have your S3 data for instance copied to another location in the world
that's closer to your users for EC2 Web sites.
You could have EC2 instance instances running around the world but you might then need to find out
a way of synchronizing that data and it might become complex.
So what a content delivery network does is make that very easy for you.
You can now have all your data in one location so you've got all your data sitting in a necessary bucket
in the US or running on an Amazon EC2 Web site in the US and you can have the content that's being
delivered from these buckets or Web sites copied closer to your user and cached in one of these locations.
I'll talk more about the differences between the regional edge caches and edge locations shortly but
these are both places where your data can be cached.
Now let's have a quick look at another diagram and this is an image that comes straight from the AWS
Web site and this shows you where the points of presence are for CloudFront.
So in other words where these edge locations and regional edge car caches are actually located and you
can see those 176 edge locations 11 regional edge caches and that incorporates 69 cities in 30 countries.
So there's a lot of places around the world where your data can be cached.
So what's the difference between an edge location and a regional edge cache.
Well basically what this means is that the edge location has a cache and a regional edge location has
a cache.
Now there are a lot more edge locations than there are regional edge caches.
But the regional edge caches have a bigger cache.
So what that means is if your data is being frequently accessed then it's going to get cached at edge
locations and is going to be constantly pulling that down so the time to live is going to keep getting
refreshed as the object is being used.
However if users don't access the objects then the TTL will expire and the object will be removed from
the location.
Now you don't necessarily want it to be all the way back over here where your EC2 instance or bucket
is.
So instead you've got the regional edge caches and because they have a bigger cache you can store some
of that data here and that might be infrequently accessed but you still want it to be a bit closer to
your users.
So if we just go back to this diagram you can see again there's 11 regional edge caches and they're the
circles with the orange band around them.
And so there's probably a lot fewer of those than the actual edge locations but they are distributed
to some of the most populous parts of the world.
So that does mean that you've got a bit more space to put your data on for about less frequently access
data.
The other key concepts to understand before we get into the labs are distributions and origins.
So an origin is simply where your data comes from.
So that could be an S3 bucket that could be an 3 bucket configured as a static web site or
that could be a EC2 instance or an EC2 instance sat behind an application load balancer. So it
is recommended to use EC2 instances behind ALB because obviously you want to ensure availability
of the actual origin. There are also media package and media store origins but I don't believe that they're
is scope for the exam at this stage so we're not going to cover those right now.
The other component of CloudFront is a distribution. Distributions are how you configure CloudFront
you configure your distributions to connect to your origins and you have two different types of distribution.
One is a Web distribution and the other is an RTMP distribution.
So for web that's static and dynamic content using HTTP or HTTPS you can add update or delete objects
and use web forms.
So it's not just about caching and downloading data using CloudFront you can upload data as well.
You can also do real time live streaming.
You've then got the RTMP which uses Adobe Flash media RTMP protocol and that can see some extra things
like you can play a media file before it's actually downloaded.
In that case it actually has to use an S3 origin so you can't use an EC2 origin with RTMP. We'll
get stuck into the labs now and you'll learn a lot more about origins and distributions as we go through
them.
So in the next lab what we're going to do is we're going to create a static Web site on S3 and
publish that through CloudFront.